 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
 
 
Assignment 5 
Bilingual Interactive Dashboard 
 
 
  
GOALS 
This fifth and last assignment is meant to give you hands on experience toward the development of a 
small bilingual interactive dashboard applying concepts seen during Module 8 û Visualization and 
Internationalization. 
Your dashboard can be based on any domain/dataset that you wish, either for visualizing food prices, 
sport statistics, university enrolment, etc. 
There are technical requirements for your interactive dashboard site though, so make sure that the 
domain/dataset you select allows you to meet these requirements. 
By carrying out this assignment, you will: 
ò 
Reflect on the notion of visualization and the 3Cs (Context, Clutter-free, Contrast) for 
choosing graph types and designing graphs 
ò 
Reflect on internationalization, including translation difficulties and UI elements to localize 
ò 
Explore visual and verbal communication in relation to designing a dashboard that will 
include informative graphs and allow interactivity  
ò 
Continue expanding and refining your JavaScript development skills 
 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
 SCHEDULE / DEADLINES 
Here are the important calendar events for this assignment. 
ò 
Monday July 6th tutorial 
Make sure to attend July 6th tutorial in which you will further explore the requirements for this 
assignment and the required technologies.   
ò 
Forum monitoring on Brightspace between Tuesday July 7th and Friday July 17th  
If something is not clear, if you need help about the assignment, then please ask questions on 
Brightspace forum.  Make sure you get help.  Any question is fine, as long as it is asked in a polite and 
respectful manner.  TAs will be monitoring the forum regularly and answer your questions.  Not only 
will their answers help you, they will help other students in the class.   
ò 
Emails to TAs between Tuesday July 7th and Friday July 17th 
ONLY if the forum help is not sufficient, you can request a one-on-one help session from the TA 
assigned to your lab session (make sure you contact the TA for YOUR session û Z01 to Z04).   
ò 
Report submission: Sunday, July 19th, midnight 
 
You MUST submit your report, which will follow the requirements and contain a link to your portfolio 
by Sunday, July 19th, midnight.  No extension will be given.  The only exceptions will be for justified 
medical reasons with medical certificates. The penalty is 20% per day.  There is a grace period till 
1amà but then itÆs -20%! 
 
ò 
Group review registration: Sunday, July 19th, midnight 
 
Make sure you put your name on the group review schedule.  You MUST participate in the group 
review to practice your analysis skills and get feedback on your design.   
 
ò 
Group review participation between July 20th and 26th   
 
This time the group review sessions will be scheduled sooner after the submission deadline 
compared to previous assignments.  There are no quizzes to wait forà so we can start sooner.  Also, 
since you have your final exam on July 29th, I want all the group reviews to be done a few days 
before.  Not registering or missing the group review is 20% off your assignment. 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
  ONLINE TUTORIALS / TECHNOLOGIES 
Resources for JavaScript development have been provided in the requirement documents for 
Assignment 1 and 2.   
During the July 6th tutorial, the TA will provide examples for the development of dashboards.  I donÆt 
see the need for an additional tutorial on July 13th but donÆt hesitate to ask questions on the forum. 
 
 
  REQUIREMENTS 
 
1. Explore datasets and choose a domain for your analysis 
Spend a bit of time exploring datasets.  You do not need to have a complex dataset.  You can find 
something online and take a subset of the information for your assignment.  The purpose of the 
assignment is to explore different types of graphs and how to include them in a dashboard.  No need 
for complex data.  You can even copy-paste by hand part of some data found online. 
If you wish, you can use synthetic data as generated by GenAI software.  BUT, if you do that, it is 
ESSENTIAL that your dashboard indicate clearly that you are presenting synthetic data. 
Here are three examples of data that could become source data for an interactive dashboard. 
 
A) Food prices 
Statistics Canada publishes information about food prices and shows some visualizations.  You can 
see some charts and info here https://www.statcan.gc.ca/en/topics-start/food-price and there is a 
pointer to the tables (link in page) which you could use for your own interactive dashboard.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
 
 
B) Canadian University Enrolment  
The site Universities Canada has statistics on enrolment per university (https://univcan.ca/about-
universities-canada/facts-and-stats/enrolment-by-university/).  These could be presented in 
interesting ways in a dashboard, perhaps in complement with some other university related data. 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
C) Soccer statistics 
The MLS publishes some player statistics. https://www.mlssoccer.com/stats/players/.  I know 
nothing about sportsà but IÆm sure all the fan sports among you would find something interesting to 
display in a dashboard. 
  
 
2. Reflect / Design 
Spend time thinking about the various data that would be interesting to show graphically and what 
graph type would be most appropriate. For this assignment, you are not required to create personas 
and storyboards.  Yet, I do STRONGLY encourage you do mockups even if you will not be required to 
submit them.  In your report, you will be required to describe your design choices, and if you can 
support those with mockups, that will make your explanations easier. 
(A) Decide on 2 charts for visualization 
Your interactive dashboard will need to include at least two charts.  In the series of videos on Charts, 
Choosing Chart Types, the presenter (from NN/g) mentions that Bar Chart, Line Chart and Scatter 
Plots are graph types particularly useful in different situations.   
Decide on 2 charts for your dashboard, with a requirement that they be of a different type (e.g. one 
bar chart and one line chart). 
As one example, for the food dataset, the dashboard could present (1) variations in food price for a 
particular item (e.g. tomatoes) with a line chart and (2) price comparison of different food items (e.g. 
tomatoes, broccoli, cucumbers) with a bar chart. 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
(B) Design with the 3Cs 
The 3Cs are Context, Clutter-Free and Contrast, as presented in the series of videos on Charts.  For 
each chart, think of its: 
o Context (how you will introduce it and what it is meant to show),  
o Clutter-Free (what you want to emphasize and what would be chartjunk) 
o Contrast (how to choose colors, title information and callouts) 
 
(C) Include a title, a proper layout and interactions  
The particularity of a dashboard (in contrast to a static report) is that the user should see all the 
graphs on a single page (or a few pages if there are many graphs) and be able to modify the charts 
using various menus leading to different selections.   
For example, for food price data, the user could choose to display prices in different currencies (e.g. 
Canadian dollar versus euros), or quantities in different units (e.g. pounds versus kilograms).  In the 
case of sports, the user could vary the temporal extent of a graph and see a player's statistics from 
2010-2015 instead of 2020-2025.  And in the case of university enrolments, the user could decide 
which 2 universities to compare.  All these possibilities should be offered to the user in the form of 
menus, toggles or other interactive components. 
Also the dashboard should be self-explanatory with a proper title, and a bit of text explaining what 
the graphs are. 
 
(D) Perform localisation 
Your site will need to be in 2 languages.  It could be English/French (like Statistics Canada food site 
example), or you can choose any second language that you want.  Only English is mandatory.  If you 
do not speak a second language, no worries, just use Google Translate for your translations.  We 
know it wonÆt be exact, but the purpose in this assignment is not to have perfect translation, but 
rather for you to witness what will be the impact on your design when it needs to be displayed in 2 
languages. 
ò 
Make sure to include a Language Selection designed according to the guidelines presented in the 
localization video. 
ò 
For at least ONE chart: 
o Make sure that all textual elements within the chart are in the chosen language (see 
internationalization video discussing graphs) 
o Make sure that all textual elements outside of the chart (title, interactive elements such 
as lists and buttons) are in the chosen language. 
ò 
Make sure you consider the different elements important in localization (e.g. date, number 
format, images, icons). 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
PLEASE NOTE: Although using a resource file is essential for design for internationalization, it will not 
be mandatory for this assignment provided the timeline and scope of the assignment. 
 
3. Implement your interactive dashboard as a high-fidelity prototype 
Using a JavaScript framework (e.g., React), create a high-fidelity interactive. 
The high-fidelity prototype should meet the following technical requirements: 
a. Be developed using a JavaScript framework (e.g., React) 
b. Be interactive (allow a user to actually change some charts with some parameters). 
c. Be accessible through your portfolio 
 
The high-fidelity prototype should be in line with the reflection done in step 2 above: 
(A) The 2 charts should be present and correspond to the chart types decided. 
(B) The 3Cs should be considered 
(C) The layout, title and interactions should be there (at least one interaction per chart) 
(D) The site should be partially bilingual (one chart) with proper language selection 
 
Your high-fidelity prototype should be guided by visual design principles and usability heuristics: 
We saw many design guidelines during the semester, try to think of them for your design. 
a. Use a color theme and be consistent 
b. Use typography to attract attention 
c. Think of the impact of the layout and the use of negative space 
d. Use well the principles of contrast, scale, balance, visual hierarchy 
e. Think of the Gestalt Principles for Perception (e.g. similarity, continuity, closure, figure and 
ground, etc). 
f. Find a good synergy between visual (chart) communication and verbal communication so 
that both work together. 
g. Think of the 10 usability heuristics and include elements for your prototype to be in line with 
them. 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
4.  Host your high-fidelity prototype 
You are required to host your dashboard online.  
 
5. Link your portfolio to your dashboard and revise your portfolio 
You must now link your portfolio to the high-fidelity prototype of the dashboard as you did for all 
previous assignment.  
Your portfolio and dashboard should be accessible to the public (or, if you prefer, password 
protected with the password provided in your report).   
The TA must be able to test your UI without having to communicate with you.  This is ESSENTIAL. 
 
6. Revise your portfolio 
This is your final assignment, and you are asked to revise and finalize your portfolio to make sure all 
temporary images that you included in Assignment 1 have been replaced by appropriate images 
reflecting the choices you made for your service site, memory game, e-commerce site and 
dashboard.   
With the design knowledge you have acquired throughout the semester, your portfolio can certainly 
look better than it did in Assignment 1.  Take the time to have a portfolio that reflects your UI 
knowledge. 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
7. Write a short report describing your design process and choices: 
Your report should include: 
1. Designer: Name + student number 
 
2. Dashboard Goal + Data:  
a. Provide the domain (sport, food, etc), the dataset (link to source or AI generated) 
and modifications done to the data (what did you extract or copy/paste from the 
site). 
b. Provide links to inspiration dashboards (if any). 
 
3. Reflection/Design: 
 
(A) Charts 
ò 
Describe the charts to be shown, and the choice of chart type. 
 
(B) 3Cs 
ò 
Describe how you thought of the 3Cs and what you did. 
 
(C) Layout, title, interactions 
ò 
Describe the type of interactions (what will the user be able to modify) 
 
(D) Internationalization 
ò 
Describe the languages chosen and how you obtained the translations (if you are 
bilingual or relied on Google Translate) 
ò 
Describe the translation difficulties you encountered (e.g. text size) 
ò 
Describe your localization process (what did you localize?)   
 
4. High-fidelity prototype 
a. Explain the visual design choices you made. 
b. Link to your portfolio 
 
5. Code: A link to your GitHub  
 
6. Generative AI Acknowledgement: Many of you will use generative AI to help you create your 
high-fidelity prototypes and your report. Describe the role of generative AI for each of those, 
providing the GenAI tools used and your interactions with them. 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
   EVALUATION 
This assignment is worth 10% of your semester and is evaluated on 100 points. The 10% weight 
reflects the fact that you are both doing the dashboard and revising your portfolio in its final version. 
ò 
Your reportÆs content and clarity (5 points) 
o Go through the list of 6 elements given above.  Your report should contain all these 
elements with answers to better understand your design choices and the help 
provided by GenAI. 
o Make sure the different sections of the report are clearly identified. 
o Avoid long paragraphs, give information in a concise manner, easy to read. 
ò 
Your reflection and design choices for the Chart information and types (5 points) 
ò 
Your reflection and design choices for the 3Cs (5 points) 
ò 
Your reflection and design choices for Internationalization (5 points) 
ò 
Your hosted web site, accessible and made according to the requirements provided (50 
point) 
o UI should reflect the choices made visual design 
o UI should reflect design choices for charts 
o UI should reflect design choices for internationalization 
ò 
Your active participation in the group review (20 points) 
o Ability to analyze other studentÆs design according to the principles explored in the 
lecture 
o Ability to answer questions from TA and other students 
ò 
Your overall portfolio with revised images (10 points) 
 
 
   SUBMISSION CONTENT / PLATFORM 
Each student must submit their report, PDF version (see all its requirements above) on Brightspace.  
The link can be found in the Assignment section, for Assignment 5. 
ALSO, very important, MAKE SURE you register on the signup sheet for your group review.  You will 
be informed when the signup sheet is available. 
 
 
 
 
⌐ Caroline BarriΦre, University of Ottawa 
 
   QUESTIONS 
ò 
See the section Schedule/Deadline of the current document.  It indicates tutorials and forum 
for help and questions. 
ò 
Please DO NOT send the professor any emails.  The forum help should be enough to obtain 
answers to your questions.  Do not be shy to ask questions on the forum. Any answers 
provided there by the TA will help many other students.  
ò 
If the forum help is not sufficient, email the TA assigned to your lab session (Z01 to Z04) 
 

